Generating a Culture of Doc
===========================

:Authors: Leah Cutter
:Time: 14:00
:Session: http://docs.writethedocs.org/en/2013/conference/talks.html#leah-cutter
:Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v41nPTpXnHQ

Leah Cutter is a knowledge management specialist, and has been doing
technical writing since 1985. So what does a knowledge management
specialist do? She creates a framework for engineer generated content.
"I tell engineers what it is they have to write, how it's going to
look, and where to put it." Less writing, more direction.

Engineer generated content includes comments, READMEs, specs, team
sites, wikis, email announcements, architecture diagrams, internal
white papers, and internal blogs. Focused solely on internally
focused documentation. And even though it's difficult enough to write
*external* docuemntaiton, it's possible to develop a culture of doc
that makes Engineers willing and interested in writing internal docs.

So why should engineers write docs? Writers are outnumbered; even at
Salesforce where documentation is valued, they're hired in strict
ratios to engineers. Knowledge lives in the head of the SME (subject
matter expert), and in this case that's your engineers. But when
knowledge comes out of the engineers' heads, it needs someplace to go
to avoid a web of undiscoverable, unsearchable docs. Salesforce
created a team focused on internal docs. The Salesforce codebase is
currently monolithic, and there's a single architecture guide for the
codebase, for doing releases, servers, etc.

So how do you start developing this sort of culture at your own
company? First, harness the power of your internal champions. Find
people who are liked minded (engineers who care about grammar, docs,
etc), and nurture them and give them a forum. Maybe it's an email
list, forum, or Yammer/Chatter group. Chatter has been great for
Cutter because it allows her to put new docs in front of people who
care, people who will comment on them, and people who will give
feedback. It's important not to try and go it alone: SMEs know where
the problems are, and they probably have ideas about how to fix them.
To develop a culture of doc, you need to provide organization and
project management so they can help you with documentation.

Cutter's experience is that SMEs fall into three categories in roughly
equal proportion: eager to help, willing to help (with guidance in the
form of templates and direction), and curmudgeons.

Salesforce holds documentation hack days, where they focus on fixing
docs. They always have a theme, and they always have suggestions about
things to focus on. They've been very successful and have yielded lots
of great resources for supporting engineers in writing docs (example:
one engineer started a list of graphical tools for things like ERDs).

They also hold internal architecture reviews where they try to engage
engineers with other engineers or architects to cross-pollinate. For
example, a cross-functional talk about how releases happen. These help
generate a culture of doc by engaging engineers with knowledge
sharing.

You as a writer have knowledge that engineers need to help them write
docs effectively, and when you share that knowledge you help them
write more docs. Hold doc office hours where you're available to help
them with docs. Because some text is better than no text.

Curmudgeons will say "but code documents itself!" Cutter calls "bull";
code only tells what it does, not its intent. [NB: Intent is worthless
if the code's action doesn't match it.] Even if you know what you
wrote immediately after you wrote it, six months later you'll have
moved on and that's when the documentation becomes critical.
