Translating Customer Interactions to Documentation
==================================================

:Authors: Nisha George & Elaine Tsai
:Time: 15:20
:Session: http://docs.writethedocs.org/en/2013/conference/talks.html#nisha-george
:Link: @negeorge / @etsaii

Work at Twilio, and most of the documentation is owned by the support
team. Better support through better documentation. So why do customers
write into support in the first place? To find out if your product
does something, to get help with something, and to get something
fixed. Your documentation can support all three of these modes of
operation. It helps maintain a healthy relationship between you and
your customers.

Why does it make sense to have support own part of the documentation?
Support interacts with the customers directly, and writes docs that
add to what engineers write. Engineers might wrap the helper
libraries, technical docs, and feature overviews, and Support can
write FAQs, sample code, etc. There isn't a need to look for topics:
almost every ticket that comes into support could be a help desk
article.

So how does documentation and support support scalability? Better
support docs help keep your support ticket growth rate below your
customer growth rate (hopefully).

"Knowledge is another problem many companies face [as you scale the
company]." Knowledge is diffuse between sales, support, etc. There
should be one place for team members from around the company to refer
to as the source of truth. This also helps with knowledge retention
and institutional knowledge.

Finding support documentation needs to be easy, because the barrier
for a customer writing into support (and taking up time) is very low.
Your knowledge base needs to speak the same language as your users.
The documentation should be structured and logical (within the context
of the product). Twilio does this by starting general and then moving
more in depth. The documentation should also be searchable, in case a
customer comes along who is trying to enter at a point other than the
starting point you've anticipated.

By transforming customer interactions into documentation for known
issues and patters, you're investing in the future of your product and
support team. They're able to spend their time supporting customers in
addressing new issues or patterns that may arise. By implementing
these principles you empower your customers.

How will you know you're successful? Customers will trust you, they
will feel self sufficient, and once they discover the docs, they're
more likely to return.
