Getting Developers and Engineers to Write the Docs
==================================================

:Authors: Kevin Hale
:Time: 14:40
:Session: http://docs.writethedocs.org/en/2013/conference/talks.html#kevin-hale
:Link: @ilikevests

Hale is from Survey Monkey, and founded Wufoo. It's web-based
Microsoft Access, that looks like it's designed by Fischer-Price.
Acquired by SurveyMonkey in 20XX, returning 29,561% profit to
investors. The team was about 10 people whne acquired, and *everyone*
wrote documentation. They did this because they were all required to
do customer support.

They did this through the company culture. They were fanatical about
creating relationships with their customers, treating new users like
they were dating, and existing users like a marriage, applying the
best science they could find about these topics. When it comes to
dating, first impressions matter. Tolerance for surface issues like
picking your nose (especially compared to when you've been married for
years) is very, very low. By focusing on the interactions (upgrade
triggers, login CTAs, etc) you can draw users in. [Lots of very visual
examples; really, really engaging.] When Wufoo launched their API (and
the documentation for it), they held a

John Gottman does research about marriages. He can watch a 15 minute
video of a couple fighting about something, he can predict the
survival of the relationship at 4 years with 85% accuracy. When 1 hour
of observation, his accuracy goes up to 94%.  What Gottman has found
is that *everyone* fights. Money, kids, sex, time, others, jealousy,
and in-laws. In marriage, divorce is the equivalent of churn. Users
and companies don't complain about kids and sex, they complain about
cost/building, users' clients, performance, roadmap, etc. In the
typical freemium funnel, you have this funnel. Support is what happens
between the stages of the funnel.

Software engineers and developers are divorced from the consequences
of their decisions. Before launch you're solely focused on building
software. After launch, that pie gets split up into support, hiring,
crap, and more crap, and the people doing the building/engineering are
no longer part of the feedback loop.

Wufoo wanted a culture of

* Responsibility
* Accountability
* Humility

They started doing Support Driven Development. They wanted to build
software that was better and of a higher quality when it goes out the
door. So *everyone* does customer support. What happens when you make
everyone responsible for customer every week? When they're in a
feedback loop where they feel the consequences of their engineering
decisions? They all become incredibly invested in making a great
product.

#. Support responsible developers and designers give the best customer
   support. Kayak founds this, too: they installed a phone in the
   engineering department. You're not paying them to answer the phone,
   you're paying to motivate them to fix things.

   Even the accountant wrote docs, and came up with making the charge
   name was "wufoo.com/charge", which explained things.

#. Support responsible developers and designers create better
   software. Studies back this up; cites a study by Jared Spool that
   correlates increased direct exposure to the customer (at least two
   hours every six weeks) with better software. Wufoo engineers had
   six to eight hours per week. And landed a spot on Neilsen's list of
   best web application UIs, along with companies that had way more
   money and people.

#. Support responsible developers and designers respect the front
   lines doing customer support. When they finally hired a real
   (full-time) support person, they were the most revered member of
   the team.

Finally, relationships atrophy. Gottman saw that some couples broke up
in four years, and he could predict that very accurately. Others went
ten, fifteen years, and then the kids went to college and they went
away, and then the relationship died. Relationships follow the second
law of thermodynamics. Wufoo puts energy back into the relationship
with their customers by blogging, writing email newsletters, and also
doing an internal alert. For an engineer, the internal alert is the
most valuable piece of real estate at Wufoo. To get there, the
engineer has to **write the docs**.

Wufoo also made sure people were saying Thank You to the people
writing the docs. So every week they write thank-you notes to their
customers. [Wow, this is amazing.] They're not fancy, they're
cardboard cards with dinosaur stickers on them that a developer or
accountant or the CEO writes a heartfelt thank you on. **THAT** puts
energy into the relationship.
