Docs as Marketing: Make Your API Irresistible
=============================================

:Authors: Adam DuVander
:Time: 16:40
:Session: http://docs.writethedocs.org/en/2013/conference/talks.html#adam-duvander
:Link:

Lots of APIs being written, explosive growth in the ProgrammableWeb
directory, and developers value documentation, and more specifically
accurate, timely, transparent documentation. In 2011 a developer
survey called out Facebook as the company with the worst API. (They've
since gotten better). Most companies have an entire team devoted to
marketing, and only one person (if you're lucky) to write developer
documentation. So what can we learn from marketing about making APIs
appealing by way of the documentation?

So what does your documentation need?

Clarity
-------

Developers can find the portal for the documentation. This
seems like a low bar, but it's probably not met by lots of those API
providers. Clarity also means providing a place where developers can
see an overview of the API. Client libraries, sample code, and example
apps in the languages developers are using are a way providers can
help increase clarity. Finally, using standard authentication methods
(OAuth, etc) provide clarity out of the box for developers: it's one
less thing for them to learn.

Cost
----

Developers want to be able to easily understand if there's a fee to
use the service, and related to that is whether or not a rate limit
applies. A rate limit is a cost, it's just charged in developer time.
A hidden cost is often Terms of Service, so making that visible and
easy to understand is a way to make your API more appealing.

Community
---------

Developers need a way to ask a question and get an answer about using
your API. Facebook did this after being named "worst": they went to
StackOverflow, where they knew developers already were, and started
answering questions there. YouTube and others shine a spotlight on
third party developers, giving them a way to get more exposure within
the community. Another way to give exposure to developers is through
an app directory. Yellow Pages of Canada does a great job of this.
Putting a face to your company's API efforts -- either through
documentation or through some other tool -- helps developers feel like
they're engaging with other *people*, not just a company.
