Translating Science into Poetry
===============================

:Authors: Daniya Kamran
:Time: 9:40
:Session: http://docs.writethedocs.org/en/2013/conference/talks.html#daniya-kamran
:Link:

Kamran is an interventionist and a translator: her job is to take
complex, deep topics like nutrition for children or the state of
higher education, and turn them into something that's accessible and
comprehensible. This is an intervention: words intervene in the
reader's train of thought, and have the ability to redirect the course
of their thoughts. That's a pretty decent responsibility.

**Immortality** Poetry is very good at immortality. When you write you
can not write thinking that your writing will never be seen again. We
*know* that the technology we write about will someday be obsolete and
irrelevant. You may think that this knowledge doesn't come across in
our writing, but it *does*. The reader can tell that you're only
writing it well enough to survive for 18 months. Poets write to
transcend time: they don't believe that context is required to
understand and appreciate the work. Who today understands the full
context of Shakespeare? Good writing will get replaced at some point.
Bad writing will be replaced *immediately*. Epic writing will be
**edited**. Your writing can and will remain if you're writing well.
Write to be immortal.

**Dilemma** We assume that when people read documentation, they know
*why* they're reading them. That's not always the case; it's not even
clear that it's *usually* the case. Poets are very good at dilemma and
making them apparent. [Frost, "The Road Not Taken", 1920] Your worst
enemy as a documentarian is not someone else's document or book or
whatever, it's a lack of initiative. Making a dissonance obvious
creates a sense of urgency, increases the readers' feeling of
autonomy, and provides the call to action that your user needs to
move forward. If your document creates this dilemma, your reader will
*want* to continue reading.

**Bias** Be biased: there is such a thing as a point of view.
Scientists are allergic to a point of view, the value objectivity.
"You don't have a point of view, but you can tell me fifteen others?
You must be smart." But your reader comes to your documentation
because they want *your* expertise: they want to benefit from the work
*you've* done. They're coming to you because *you're* an expert.
Wordsworth accuses the reader of being *dull* if they can't appreciate
London in "Composed Upon Westminster Bridge" (1802). That's a bias!
Expertise requires a point of view. A point of view provides context.

**Error** Poetry is all about errors: bad things happen all the time.
Ships sink, people eat each other, everything goes to hell, and it's
awful. But it makes for really good poetry, and most of the time we
don't wind up hating the author. Why is poetry still epic even when
everything is going wrong? Because it deals with a cyclical journey.
As engineers or scientists, we think of error as a consequence, not as
part of a natural cycle. Being OK with breaking things is how great
computer scientists are born: they're OK with breaking things, and
come up with better ways to fix them. Do not consider error
*punctuation*: it's part of the process. We're good at recognizing the
temporary nature of what we do, but we should also recognize it as
provisional: it will be edited.

**Reiteration** Poetry is great at using reiteration and repetition to
reinforce what's important. [Shel Silverstein, "Where the Sidewalk
Ends", 1974] After every complexity, reiterating the purpose makes the
purpose palatable, digestible, and keeps the purpose at the forefront
of the reader's mind. Iteration ensures that the readers doesn't lose
sight of *why* they're reading.

**Metaphors** All of the words we can use, the evidence we can draw
from to write documentation; it already exists. What we do as
documentarians is arrange them in new and interesting ways,
constructing new metaphors that illuminate the ideas for new readers.
The beauty of writing is its ability to draw from different sources
and refer to different contexts. Metaphors let the reader bring
something from themselves into the reading. That keeps them engaged in
the document.

As Scribes we have an immense responsibility: the responsibility to
create an intervention in how people do something. The way we can
learn to do this is by reading the masters. And in reading the
masters, we're going to be better at communicating complex concepts to
others. If you can make your documents *elegant*, you can translate
science and complexity into poetry. Elegance is poetry's punchline.
