UX and IA at Mozilla Support, and Helping 7.2 Million More People
=================================================================

:Authors: James Socol
:Time: 14:00
:Session: http://docs.writethedocs.org/en/2013/conference/talks.html#james-socol
:Link: @jasmessocal

Not a writer, but works on MDN and SUMO at Mozilla. SUMO hosts
documentation about Firefox itself, MDN hosts documentation for
developers. Historically SUMO was defined by the *visual* design used
for all Mozilla web properties, not a design for a *support* site.
One redesign changed things dramatically, but not clear for the
better. There were some symptoms that told the support team that the
site was not as useful as it could be. There were low "helpful"
scores, high exits from searches, high numbers of search refinement,
and high bounce rates.

Around that time someone started working at Mozilla dedicated to
usability on the *web* (as opposed to the browser). SUMO was one of
the first things she started working on, because it's a [potentially]
high engagement property. As they analyzed SUMO they found that "if
people landed on the right article, the helpfulness score were
higher!" :)

First they analyzed the content on SUMO to see what's linking where,
etc. And then they did a card sort of the content, trying to figure
out what buckets with what. At the same time they were doing some work
to analyze the performance of the current IA, having users do tasks
("where would you find the answer to this?"). The success rates were
bad: some as low as 1%. They found that some articles were missing,
some were badly named (inconsistent naming, etc), articles that needed
consolidation, and "strange attractors": articles that look right, but
aren't, and you don't really know it until the end.

Two proposed replacement architectures: one product based, and the
other task based. When they tested these replacement approaches using
Tree Jack, the results were shocking. Tasks that previously tested at
1% success went to 86%.

After testing, they built wireframes and then updated SUMO. The
helpfulness votes went up dramatically after release. "The graph goes
the right way: up."

Interesting that they found the rule about "7 links, 3 levels deep"
did not apply to SUMO: if they had the framework right, people could
handle a lot more links and information.
