Search-first documentation: tags and keywords for frustrated users
==================================================================

:Authors: Heidi Waterhouse
:Time: 12:00
:Session: http://docs.writethedocs.org/en/2013/conference/talks.html#heidi-waterhouse
:Link:

On January 2, Framemaker 10 had a wide-spread date-based failure,
which impacted Waterhouse. She spent the better part of three days
trying to figure out how to fix the problem, and in the end she was
coming to Adobe angry. And our users probably come to us angry because
they can't find what they need in the documentation.

When Waterhouse began doing technical writing, they were building "TOC
Documents". These were orderly, linear, and searchable, but this
approach also was rigid and linear, and left users out of the process.

Task based documents were more thoughtful about users and more
modular. They're modular, so they're easy to single source. But they
wind up being too "chunky", hard to discover, and very rigid about the
information. They're also usually poorly indexed: the title is natural
language, but the content often gets overlooked in the process.

Lately Waterhouse has been seeing "Guerilla Documentation":
documentation that the users create for themselves because they're fed
up with the "real" documentation. Today there's some semi-official
guerilla documentation: user forums run by software companies, etc.
Because it's user created, it's relevant to actual user needs.
Unfortunately it can become stale quickly, and it's uncontrolled so it
may be harmful (ie, an Android patch on XDA). Users have to leave your
ecosystem to find the information, and the signal to noise ratio is
very low.

So what if we took the best of all three approaches, to develop
something Waterhouse calls "Search First Documentation". It's
responsive to user needs, self-triaging, born searchable, and made for
cross-referencing. Tags and keywords, in their best forms, tell you
what users call things: "blue screen of death" doesn't show up in
Microsoft's source or manual, but we know what that is.

So how do you do that? You gather data about what people are looking
for from tech support, user communication, and even your inbound
search log. If you triage based on a normal distribution, you'll find
the most important things to begin writing documentation on. And
publish all the time.
